{"entries":[{"caption":"Gemini Principles Sorted by Relevance. The bar chart shows how respondents rated the relevance of various Gemini principles in response to the question, “Please rate, for each of the following Gemini principles, the extent to which it focuses on issues that you believe to be relevant for your work.”. Ratings were provided on a scale from “Extremely Relevant” to “Not Relevant,” with green shades representing higher relevance (Extremely, Very) and yellow shades representing lower relevance (Moderately Relevant, Slightly Relevant and Not Relevant). The stacked bars indicate the percentage of respondents who selected each level of relevance for each principle. The principles are sorted by the total number of responses indicating high relevance (green shades), with those receiving more high relevance ratings appearing at the top.","key":"fig-relevance_stacked","order":{"number":6,"section":[1,2,2,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Relative Perceptions of Gemini Principles. This scatterplot compares the nine Gemini principles based on their average ratings across two dimensions: relevance and challenge. Each dot represents the average response for a principle across all survey responses, with the x-axis showing the level of challenge (increasing from left to right) and the y-axis showing the level of relevance (increasing from bottom to top). The principles are color-coded for identification: security (dark purple), quality (lighter purple), value (pink), insight (dark blue), public good (orange), federation (yellow), evolution (green/yellow), curation (teal), and openness (light blue). The crosshair marks the midpoints between the most extreme average values, providing a reference for how principles compare to one another.","key":"fig-quadrant","order":{"number":8,"section":[1,2,3,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Attitudes and Satisfaction Towards Assurance Practices. This figure presents the results from multiple questions assessing respondents’ attitudes and satisfaction with assurance practices. The first three bars correspond to statements where respondents rated their level of agreement on a Likert scale from disagreeing (orange) to agreeing (green). The stacked bars show the percentage of respondents selecting each Likert rating, with colors coding for the type of response.The bottom bar reflects responses to the question, “How satisfied are you with how your team identifies and documents requirements, actions, and decisions in your assurance process?” Ratings ranged from very unsatisfied (purple) to very satisfied (blues). Percentages of “Neutral” responses are represented in grey (not displayed as bars).","key":"fig-attitudes","order":{"number":4,"section":[1,1,5,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Familiarity with the Gemini Principles. The bar chart illustrates the distribution of respondents’ familiarity with the Gemini Principles. Participants were asked, “How familiar are you with the Gemini principles?” and selected one of the response options. The bars represent the percentage of respondents selecting each level of familiarity, showing a range from those who have never encountered the principles to those who actively use or contributed to their development.","key":"fig-gemini_familiarity","order":{"number":5,"section":[1,2,1,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Assurance Providers Within Organizations. The bar chart shows the distribution of responses to the multiple-choice question, “Who provides assurance within/for your organisation?” Respondents could choose from four options.","key":"fig-experience","order":{"number":1,"section":[1,1,2,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Methods of Communicating Assurance. This bar chart illustrates the responses to the question, “How do you currently communicate your assurance strategies to stakeholders, partner organisations, or your clients?” Respondents could choose multiple options from a predefined list, and the percentages indicate the proportion of participants who selected each method.","key":"fig-comms","order":{"number":11,"section":[1,3,3,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Data Sharing and Perceived Trust Challenges. This sunburst plot illustrates the relevance of data sharing within the digital twin community and the perceived difficulty in establishing trust when sharing data. The inner pie chart represents the ratio of responses to the question, “Have you considered sharing data or models with other organisations (or across partners within an organisation) to form connected digital twins?” with 55% answering “Yes” (blue) and 45% answering “No” (purple). For those who responded “Yes” a follow-up question asked about the difficulty of establishing trust when partnering to build connected digital twins. Respondents could choose from six options, which were later consolidated into three categories: “Easy”, “Neutral”, and “Difficult”. The light blue outer ring displays the percentage of these categories across all responses.","key":"fig-data_sharing","order":{"number":9,"section":[1,2,4,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Definition of Assurance for Digital Twinning. This word cloud illustrates the themes identified during the thematic analysis of the free-text responses to the question, “What do you understand ‘assurance’ to mean in the context of your work in the digital twinning sector?”. The size of each term reflects the frequency with which the theme occurred, with larger terms appearing more frequently. The color corresponds to the size of the terms, providing a visual cue for the prominence of different themes.","key":"fig-wordcloud","order":{"number":3,"section":[1,1,4,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Challenges in Building Connected Digital Twins. The bar chart presents the results of a multiple-choice question where respondents were asked to identify the major challenges to overcome when building connected digital twins. This question was conditional on respondents having answered that they do consider sharing data/models. Participants could select multiple options from a list of pre-defined challenges, and the bars show the percentage of respondents who selected each challenge. The challenges are color-coded to suggest potential categories. While these categories help group related challenges, they are not intended to be definitive or exhaustive.","key":"fig-challenges","order":{"number":10,"section":[1,2,4,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Properties Considered When Assuring Digital Twinning Technology. This chart presents the results of the multiple-choice question, “Which of the following properties (or goals) do you currently consider when assuring your (or your client’s) digital twinning technology?” Respondents could select multiple options, and the bars are grouped into categories for readability: Technical Performance, Economic, Societal, Ethical, Legal & Regulatory, and Ecosystem Integration. Each category lists specific principles below the bar in the order corresponding to the stacked segments. The smallest sections represent additional principles specified by respondents who selected “Other.” Note that these groupings are not the only possible categorisations and are used here to enhance the visualisation.","key":"fig-properties_assured","order":{"number":2,"section":[1,1,3,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Gemini Principles Sorted by Difficulty. The bar chart shows how respondents rated the difficulty of various Gemini principles in response to the question, “Please rate, for each of the following Gemini principles: How challenging is it to define and/or to know how to currently address it in practices?”. Ratings were provided on a scale from “Extremely Challenging” to “Not at all Challenging,” with blue shades representing higher amounts of challenge (Extremely, Very) and purple shades representing lower amounts of challenge (Slightly Challenging and Not at all Challenging). The stacked bars indicate the percentage of respondents who selected each level of challenge for each principle. The principles are sorted by the total number of responses indicating high amounts of challenge (blue shades), with those receiving more challenging ratings appearing at the top. The amount of responses for “Moderately challenging” are not displayed, however, across all principles this was the most frequently selected option.","key":"fig-challenges_stacked","order":{"number":7,"section":[1,2,3,0,0,0,0]}}],"headings":["analysis-of-survey-results","current-practices-and-attitudes","finding-1-high-adoption-of-digital-twins-among-respondents","finding-2-in-house-assurance-practices-prevail","finding-3-assurance-focuses-on-technical-and-economic-performance","finding-4-varied-understanding-of-assurance-in-digital-twins","finding-5-mixed-satisfaction-with-assurance-practices-and-communication","evaluating-the-gemini-principles","finding-6-high-relevance-but-limited-practical-value-of-guiding-principles","finding-7-high-relevance-ratings-across-all-principles","finding-8-mixed-perceived-challenges-across-principles","finding-9-mixed-interest-in-connected-digital-twins-and-challenges-in-establishing-trust","finding-10-key-challenges-in-implementing-the-gemini-principles-uncertainty-lack-of-standards-and-communication-barriers","readiness-for-argument-based-assurance","finding-11-interest-in-tools-but-uncertainty-remains","finding-12-lack-of-established-frameworks-for-trustworthy-and-ethical-digital-twins","finding-13-gap-in-structuring-and-communicating-assurance-cases","finding-14-value-demonstration-and-skills-training-identified-as-key-needs-for-tool-adoption"]}